text before any Pod commands is not parsed, which is unusual for formats
supported by pandoc, but 

=head1 POD TEST SUITE

This is a test L<Pod|https://perldoc.pl/perlpod> document for pandoc.

=encoding utf8

=head2 Head 2

=head3 Head 3: I<< The> <Return >>

=head4 How to use the L<ls(1)> command,
an introduction

=head5 C<Ricky Jay> and his 52 assistants

=head6 The =head5 and =head6 commands are newer and my syntax highlighting
doesn't recognize them. In any case, it should be possible to have a very long
paragraph in the heading.

=head6
It should also be possible to start the heading paragraph on the next line

=cut

This doesn't get parsed at all.

=begin html

<strong>This is a raw block destined for the HTML format</strong>

=end html

=over

=item *

Bulleted list

=item *

Ordered list

=over

=item 1.

Here's a verbatim paragraph in this list item:

    this is a code block
this is still part of the code block
  so is this.
It seems that the prefixed spaces in verbatim blocks in pod don't get stripped.

 This should continue the previous code block despite the intervening blank
 line, because the first line starts with a space
    

 
    the above blank lines with varying numbers of spaces should also be in
 the code block
	pod formatters should (but not must) expand tabs by default
so we're not special casing pandoc's behavior there in any way

Wow, that was fun.

=item 2.

Definition list

=over

=item Marvin the MZ<>artian

A cartoon alien

=item I<The Sun
Also Rises>

A novel by Ernest Hemingway

=item C<undefined>

=item And now, a quotation

=over

Where's my space modulator?

=back

=back

=item 3.

And the list continues.

=back

=item

And so does the other one, even if I forget the asterisk.

=back

=begin :neat

This is a div for our purposes.

It should parse B<< content >> inside of it.

=over

=item

Like this

=back

=end :neat

=for :excitement this is its own div

=for html <p>and this is its own raw block</p>

=for html
<p>so is this</p>

=head2 C<=cut> before any C<=item> in C<=over>

=over

=cut

blah

=item *

a

=cut

blah blah

=pod

b

=item *

c

=back
