= header =

== header level two ==

===header level 3===

====header ''level'' four====

===== header level 5 =====

====== header level 6 ======

======= not a header ========

 == not a header ==

== emph and strong ==

''emph'' '''strong'''

'''''strong and emph'''''

'''''emph inside'' strong'''

'''strong with ''emph'''''

'''''strong inside''' emph''

== horizontal rule ==

top
----
bottom

----

== nowiki ==

<nowiki>''not emph''</nowiki>

== strikeout ==

<strike> This is ''struck out''</strike>

== entities ==

hi & low

hi &amp; low

G&ouml;del

&#777;&#xAAA;

== comments ==

inline<!-- secret --> comment

<!-- secret -->

between blocks

 <!-- secret -->

== linebreaks ==

hi<br/>there

hi<br>
there

== : indents ==

hi
: there
bud

hi
:: there
bud

== p tags ==

hi there
<p>
bud
<p>
another
</p>

== raw html ==

hi <span style="color:red">''there''</span>.
<ins>inserted</ins>

<div class="special">
hi ''there''
</div>

== sup, sub, del ==

H<sub>2</sub>O
base<sup>''exponent''</sup>
<del>hello</del>

== inline code ==

<code>*&rarr;*</code> <tt>typed</tt> <hask>&gt;&gt;=</hask>

== code blocks ==

<pre>
case xs of
     (_:_) -> reverse xs
     []    -> ['*']
</pre>

<haskell>
case xs of
     (_:_) -> reverse xs
     []    -> ['*']
</haskell>

<syntaxhighlight lang="ruby" line start=100>
widgets.each do |w|
  print w.price
end
</syntaxhighlight>

== block quotes ==

Regular paragraph
<blockquote>
This is a block quote.

With two paragraphs.
</blockquote>
Nother paragraph.

== external links ==

[http://google.com ''Google'' search engine]

http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/

== lists ==

* Start each line
* with an asterisk (*).
** More asterisks gives deeper
*** and deeper levels.
* Line breaks<br/>don't break levels.
*** But jumping levels creates empty space.
Any other start ends the list.

# Start each line
# with a number sign (#).
## More number signs gives deeper
### and deeper
### levels.
# Line breaks<br/>don't break levels.
### But jumping levels creates empty space.
# Blank lines

# end the list and start another.
Any other start also
ends the list.

;item 1
: definition 1
;item 2
: definition 2-1
: definition 2-2

# one
# two
#* two point one
#* two point two
# three
#; three item one
#: three def one
# four
#: four def one
#: this looks like a continuation
#: and is often used
#: instead<br/>of <nowiki><br/></nowiki>
# five
## five sub 1
### five sub 1 sub 1
## five sub 2

