=encoding utf8

This is a set of tests for pandoc. Most of them are adapted from John Gruber’s
markdown test suite.



=head1 Headers

=head2 Level 2 with an L<embedded link|/url>

=head3 Level 3 with I<emphasis>

=head4 Level 4

=head5 Level 5

=head1 Level 1

=head2 Level 2 with I<emphasis>

=head3 Level 3

with no blank line

=head2 Level 2

with no blank line



=head1 Paragraphs

Here’s a regular paragraph.

In Markdown 1.0.0 and earlier. Version 8. This line turns into a list item.
Because a hard-wrapped line in the middle of a paragraph looked like a list
item.

Here’s one with a bullet. * criminey.

There should be a hard line break\
here.



=head1 Block Quotes

E-mail style:

=begin blockquote

This is a block quote. It is pretty short.

=end blockquote

=begin blockquote

Code in a block quote:

   sub status {
       print "working";
   }

A list:

=over

=item 1. 

item one

=item 2. 

item two

=back

Nested block quotes:

=begin blockquote

nested

=end blockquote

=begin blockquote

nested

=end blockquote

=end blockquote

This should not be a block quote: 2 E<gt> 1.

And a following paragraph.



=head1 Code Blocks

Code:

   ---- (should be four hyphens)

   sub status {
       print "working";
   }

   this code block is indented by one tab

And:

       this code block is indented by two tabs

   These should not be escaped:  \$ \\ \> \[ \{



=head1 Lists

=head2 Unordered

Asterisks tight:

=over

=item *

asterisk 1

=item *

asterisk 2

=item *

asterisk 3

=back

Asterisks loose:

=over

=item *

asterisk 1

=item *

asterisk 2

=item *

asterisk 3

=back

Pluses tight:

=over

=item *

Plus 1

=item *

Plus 2

=item *

Plus 3

=back

Pluses loose:

=over

=item *

Plus 1

=item *

Plus 2

=item *

Plus 3

=back

Minuses tight:

=over

=item *

Minus 1

=item *

Minus 2

=item *

Minus 3

=back

Minuses loose:

=over

=item *

Minus 1

=item *

Minus 2

=item *

Minus 3

=back

=head2 Ordered

Tight:

=over

=item 1. 

First

=item 2. 

Second

=item 3. 

Third

=back

and:

=over

=item 1. 

One

=item 2. 

Two

=item 3. 

Three

=back

Loose using tabs:

=over

=item 1. 

First

=item 2. 

Second

=item 3. 

Third

=back

and using spaces:

=over

=item 1. 

One

=item 2. 

Two

=item 3. 

Three

=back

Multiple paragraphs:

=over

=item 1. 

Item 1, graf one.

Item 1. graf two. The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog’s back.

=item 2. 

Item 2.

=item 3. 

Item 3.

=back

=head2 Nested

=over

=item *

Tab

=over

=item *

Tab

=over

=item *

Tab

=back

=back

=back

Here’s another:

=over

=item 1. 

First

=item 2. 

Second:

=over

=item *

Fee

=item *

Fie

=item *

Foe

=back

=item 3. 

Third

=back

Same thing but with paragraphs:

=over

=item 1. 

First

=item 2. 

Second:

=over

=item *

Fee

=item *

Fie

=item *

Foe

=back

=item 3. 

Third

=back

=head2 Tabs and spaces

=over

=item *

this is a list item indented with tabs

=item *

this is a list item indented with spaces

=over

=item *

this is an example list item indented with tabs

=item *

this is an example list item indented with spaces

=back

=back

=head2 Fancy list markers

=over

=item (2)

begins with 2

=item (3)

and now 3

with a continuation

=over

=item iv.

sublist with roman numerals, starting with 4

=item v. 

more items

=over

=item (A)

a subsublist

=item (B)

a subsublist

=back

=back

=back

Nesting:

=over

=item A. 

Upper Alpha

=over

=item I. 

Upper Roman.

=over

=item (6)

Decimal start with 6

=over

=item c) 

Lower alpha with paren

=back

=back

=back

=back

Autonumbering:

=over

=item 1. 

Autonumber.

=item 2. 

More.

=over

=item 1. 

Nested.

=back

=back

Should not be a list item:

M.A. 2007

B. Williams



=head1 Definition Lists

Tight using spaces:

=over

=item apple

red fruit

=item orange

orange fruit

=item banana

yellow fruit

=back

Tight using tabs:

=over

=item apple

red fruit

=item orange

orange fruit

=item banana

yellow fruit

=back

Loose:

=over

=item apple

red fruit

=item orange

orange fruit

=item banana

yellow fruit

=back

Multiple blocks with italics:

=over

=item I<apple>

red fruit

contains seeds, crisp, pleasant to taste

=item I<orange>

orange fruit

   { orange code block }

=begin blockquote

orange block quote

=end blockquote

=back

Multiple definitions, tight:

=over

=item apple

red fruit
computer

=item orange

orange fruit
bank

=back

Multiple definitions, loose:

=over

=item apple

red fruit
computer

=item orange

orange fruit
bank

=back

Blank line after term, indented marker, alternate markers:

=over

=item apple

red fruit
computer

=item orange

orange fruit

=over

=item 1. 

sublist

=item 2. 

sublist

=back

=back

=head1 HTML Blocks

Simple block on one line:

<div>


foo

</div>



And nested without indentation:

<div>
<div>
<div>


foo

</div>
</div>
<div>


bar

</div>
</div>



Interpreted markdown in a table:

<table>
<tr>
<td>


This is I<emphasized>

</td>
<td>


And this is B<strong>

</td>
</tr>
</table>

<script type="text/javascript">document.write('This *should not* be interpreted as markdown');</script>



Here’s a simple block:

<div>
    


foo

</div>



This should be a code block, though:

   <div>
       foo
   </div>

As should this:

   <div>foo</div>

Now, nested:

<div>
    <div>
        <div>
            


foo

</div>
    </div>
</div>



This should just be an HTML comment:

<!-- Comment -->



Multiline:

<!--
Blah
Blah
-->

<!--
    This is another comment.
-->



Code block:

   <!-- Comment -->

Just plain comment, with trailing spaces on the line:

<!-- foo -->   



Code:

   <hr />

Hr’s:

<hr>

<hr />

<hr />

<hr>   

<hr />  

<hr /> 

<hr class="foo" id="bar" />

<hr class="foo" id="bar" />

<hr class="foo" id="bar">





=head1 Inline Markup

This is I<emphasized>, and so I<is this>.

This is B<strong>, and so B<is this>.

An I<L<emphasized link|/url>>.

B<I<This is strong and em.>>

So is B<I<this>> word.

B<I<This is strong and em.>>

So is B<I<this>> word.

This is code: C<< E<gt> >>, C<< $ >>, C<< \ >>, C<< \$ >>,
C<< E<lt>htmlE<gt> >>.

This is I<strikeout>.

Superscripts: aG<bc>d aG<I<hello>> aG<hello there>.

Subscripts: HH<2>O, HH<23>O, HH<many of them>O.

These should not be superscripts or subscripts, because of the unescaped
spaces: a^b c^d, a~b c~d.



=head1 Smart quotes, ellipses, dashes

“Hello,” said the spider. “‘Shelob’ is my name.”

‘A’, ‘B’, and ‘C’ are letters.

‘Oak,’ ‘elm,’ and ‘beech’ are names of trees. So is ‘pine.’

‘He said, “I want to go.”’ Were you alive in the 70’s?

Here is some quoted ‘C<< code >>’ and a “U<quoted
link|http://example.com/?foo=1&bar=2>”.

Some dashes: one—two — three—four — five.

Dashes between numbers: 5–7, 255–66, 1987–1999.

Ellipses…and…and….



=head1 LaTeX

=over

=item *

\cite[22-23]{smith.1899}

=item *

$2+2=4$

=item *

$x \in y$

=item *

$\alpha \wedge \omega$

=item *

$223$

=item *

$p$-Tree

=item *

Here’s some display math:
$$\frac{d}{dx}f(x)=\lim_{h\to 0}\frac{f(x+h)-f(x)}{h}$$

=item *

Here’s one that has a line break in it: $\alpha + \omega \times x^2$.

=back

These shouldn’t be math:

=over

=item *

To get the famous equation, write C<< $e = mc^2$ >>.

=item *

$22,000 is a I<lot> of money. So is $34,000. (It worked if “lot” is
emphasized.)

=item *

Shoes ($20) and socks ($5).

=item *

Escaped C<< $ >>: $73 I<this should be emphasized> 23$.

=back

Here’s a LaTeX table:

\begin{tabular}{|l|l|}\hline
Animal & Number \\ \hline
Dog    & 2      \\
Cat    & 1      \\ \hline
\end{tabular}




=head1 Special Characters

Here is some unicode:

=over

=item *

I hat: Î

=item *

o umlaut: ö

=item *

section: §

=item *

set membership: ∈

=item *

copyright: ©

=back

AT&T has an ampersand in their name.

AT&T is another way to write it.

This & that.

4 E<lt> 5.

6 E<gt> 5.

Backslash: \

Backtick: `

Asterisk: *

Underscore: _

Left brace: {

Right brace: }

Left bracket: [

Right bracket: ]

Left paren: (

Right paren: )

Greater-than: E<gt>

Hash: #

Period: .

Bang: !

Plus: +

Minus: -



=head1 Links

=head2 Explicit

Just a L<URL|/url/>.

L<URL and title|/url/>.

L<URL and title|/url/>.

L<URL and title|/url/>.

L<URL and title|/url/>

L<URL and title|/url/>

L<with_underscore|/url/with_underscore>

L<Email link|mailto:nobody@nowhere.net>

L<Empty|>.

=head2 Reference

Foo L<bar|/url/>.

Foo L<bar|/url/>.

Foo L<bar|/url/>.

With L<embedded [brackets]|/url/>.

L<b|/url/> by itself should be a link.

Indented L<once|/url>.

Indented L<twice|/url>.

Indented L<thrice|/url>.

This should [not][] be a link.

   [not]: /url

Foo L<bar|/url/>.

Foo L<biz|/url/>.

=head2 With ampersands

Here’s a U<link with an ampersand in the URL|http://example.com/?foo=1&bar=2>.

Here’s a link with an amersand in the link text: U<AT&T|http://att.com/>.

Here’s an L<inline link|/script?foo=1&bar=2>.

Here’s an L<inline link in pointy braces|/script?foo=1&bar=2>.

=head2 Autolinks

With an ampersand:
U<C<< http:E<sol>E<sol>example.comE<sol>?foo=1&bar=2 >>|http://example.com/?foo=1&bar=2>

=over

=item *

In a list?

=item *

U<C<< http:E<sol>E<sol>example.comE<sol> >>|http://example.com/>

=item *

It should.

=back

An e-mail address: L<C<< nobody@nowhere.net >>|mailto:nobody@nowhere.net>

=begin blockquote

Blockquoted: U<C<< http:E<sol>E<sol>example.comE<sol> >>|http://example.com/>

=end blockquote

Auto-links should not occur here:
C<< E<lt>http:E<sol>E<sol>example.comE<sol>E<gt> >>

   or here: <http://example.com/>



=head1 Images

From “Voyage dans la Lune” by Georges Melies (1902):

!L<lalune|lalune.jpg>

Here is a movie !L<movie|movie.jpg> icon.



=head1 Footnotes

Here is a footnote reference,N<Here is the footnote. It can go anywhere after
the footnote reference. It need not be placed at the end of the document.> and
another.N<Here’s the long note. This one contains multiple blocks.> This
should I<not> be a footnote reference, because it contains a space.[^my note]
Here is an inline note.N<This is I<easier> to type. Inline notes may contain
U<links|http://google.com> and C<< ] >> verbatim characters, as well as
[bracketed text].>

=begin blockquote

Notes can go in quotes.N<In quote.>

=end blockquote

=over

=item 1. 

And in list items.N<In list.>

=back

This paragraph should not be part of the note, as it is not indented.
