.TH MARKDOWN2PDF 1 "January 29, 2011" "Pandoc User Manuals"
.SH NAME
.PP
markdown2pdf - converts markdown-formatted text to PDF, using pdflatex
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
markdown2pdf [\f[I]options\f[]] [\f[I]input-file\f[]]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[C]markdown2pdf\f[] converts \f[I]input-file\f[] (or text from
standard input) from markdown-formatted plain text to PDF, using
\f[C]pandoc\f[] and \f[C]pdflatex\f[].
If no output filename is specified (using the \f[C]-o\f[] option), the
name of the output file is derived from the input file; thus, for
example, if the input file is \f[I]hello.txt\f[], the output file will
be \f[I]hello.pdf\f[].
If the input is read from STDIN and no output filename is specified, the
output file will be named \f[I]stdin.pdf\f[].
If multiple input files are specified, they will be concatenated before
conversion, and the name of the output file will be derived from the
first input file.
.PP
Input is assumed to be in the UTF-8 character encoding.
If your local character encoding is not UTF-8, you should pipe input
through \f[C]iconv\f[]:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
iconv\ -t\ utf-8\ input.txt\ |\ markdown2pdf
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[C]markdown2pdf\f[] assumes that the \f[C]unicode\f[], \f[C]array\f[],
\f[C]fancyvrb\f[], \f[C]graphicx\f[], and \f[C]ulem\f[] packages are in
latex\[aq]s search path.
If these packages are not included in your latex setup, they can be
obtained from \f[C]http://ctan.org\f[].
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -o \f[I]FILE\f[], --output=\f[I]FILE\f[]
Write output to \f[I]FILE\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B --strict
Use strict markdown syntax, with no extensions or variants.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -N, --number-sections
Number section headings in LaTeX output.
(Default is not to number them.)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B --listings
Use listings package for LaTeX code blocks
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B --template=\f[I]FILE\f[]
Use \f[I]FILE\f[] as a custom template for the generated document.
Implies \f[C]-s\f[].
See the section TEMPLATES in \f[C]pandoc\f[](1) for information about
template syntax.
Use \f[C]pandoc\ -D\ latex\f[] to print the default LaTeX template.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -V KEY=VAL, --variable=\f[I]KEY:VAL\f[]
Set the template variable KEY to the value VAL when rendering the
document in standalone mode.
Use this to set the font size when using the default LaTeX template:
\f[C]-V\ fontsize=12pt\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -H \f[I]FILE\f[], --include-in-header=\f[I]FILE\f[]
Include (LaTeX) contents of \f[I]FILE\f[] at the end of the header.
Implies \f[C]-s\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -B \f[I]FILE\f[], --include-before-body=\f[I]FILE\f[]
Include (LaTeX) contents of \f[I]FILE\f[] at the beginning of the
document body.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -A \f[I]FILE\f[], --include-after-body=\f[I]FILE\f[]
Include (LaTeX) contents of \f[I]FILE\f[] at the end of the document
body.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B --bibliography=\f[I]FILE\f[]
Specify bibliography database to be used in resolving citations.
The database type will be determined from the extension of
\f[I]FILE\f[], which may be \f[C].xml\f[] (MODS format), \f[C].bib\f[]
(BibTeX format), or \f[C].json\f[] (citeproc JSON).
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B --csl=\f[I]FILE\f[]
Specify CSL style to be used in formatting citations and the
bibliography.
If \f[I]FILE\f[] is not found, pandoc will look for it in
.RS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$HOME/.csl
\f[]
.fi
.PP
in unix and
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
C:\\Documents\ And\ Settings\\USERNAME\\Application\ Data\\csl
\f[]
.fi
.PP
in Windows.
If the \f[C]--csl\f[] option is not specified, pandoc will use a default
style: either \f[C]default.csl\f[] in the user data directory (see
\f[C]--data-dir\f[]), or, if that is not present, the Chicago
author-date style.
.RE
.TP
.B --data-dir\f[I]=DIRECTORY\f[]
Specify the user data directory to search for pandoc data files.
If this option is not specified, the default user data directory will be
used:
.RS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$HOME/.pandoc
\f[]
.fi
.PP
in unix and
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
C:\\Documents\ And\ Settings\\USERNAME\\Application\ Data\\pandoc
\f[]
.fi
.PP
in Windows.
A \f[C]reference.odt\f[], \f[C]epub.css\f[], \f[C]templates\f[]
directory, or \f[C]s5\f[] directory placed in this directory will
override pandoc\[aq]s normal defaults.
.RE
.TP
.B --xetex
Use xelatex instead of pdflatex to create the PDF.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B --luatex
Use lualatex instead of pdflatex to create the PDF.
.RS
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]pandoc\f[](1), \f[C]pdflatex\f[](1)
.SH AUTHORS
John MacFarlane, Paulo Tanimoto, and Recai Oktas.
